[MUSIC]
So far, we have discussed
approximation algorithms in general.
Now, we are going to study a specific
problem, the vertex cover problem.
First, I need to give you the definition
of the vertex cover problem.
Here is a vertex cover.
Look at this blanket.
The vertices on that blanket
touch all the edges of the graph
that appears at the bottom of this screen.
So the vertices under the blanket, three
of them are a vertex cover for that graph.
And by the way, the character represented
her is Linus, a Charlie Brown character.
I like to give definitions from examples.
So let us start with a famous example
of a graph that is often used
to prove counter examples to show that
certain conjunctions do not hold.
On this graph,
how would you construct a vertex cover?
We have to pick a certain set of vertices.
Let me start.
Let's say,
I will take the top vertex, vertex
A A covers three edges of the graph,
I drew them in red.
Three edges, so far so good, but
there are still edges uncovered,
not yet covered on this graph so
I have to keep going.
So we'll pick another
vertex on this graph.
For example, I can pick a vertex
at the bottom left of my figure.
B covers three edges.
Good.
Now, I need to continue.
Pick more vertices to cover all the edges.
Another one C.
C covers three edges, but one of
them is already covered by vertex B.
No matter.
It does not matter that an edge
is covered by both end points.
C covers two more edges.
I keep going, let me pick vertex D,
then Vertex E, F and voila.
This, my set of six vertices,
A, B, C, D, E,
F that is a vertex cover of the graph.
Every edge in this graph is covered
by at least one of these vertices.
Edge B-C is covered twice.
But all in all, every edge has at
least one end point in the cover.
So that's the vertex cover of size 6.
If every vertex has weight 1,
then the weight of my cover
is 1 plus 1 plus 1 plus 1 plus 1 plus 1,
6.
This is optimal,
it is not possible to cover
all the edges of this
graph with five vertices.
Why is that?
It's easy, easy to find an argument
to prove that five is possible.
Indeed observe the outer
part of the graph.
It's a cycle of length five.
Well, if you want to cover all
the edges of a five cycle,
you need at least three vertices.
Now observe the inner part of the graph.
It's a star.
A star with five points.
Well, the star is just another
way to draw a five cycle.
So we also need three vertices
inside the graph to cover
the inner cycle of the graph.
All in all, we need at least six vertices.
So the solution I give you
a,b,c,d,e,f is optimal.
It minimizes the weight of
the vertices that are chosen.
So, that's the vertex column
problem given as an input,
a graph where every vertex
in the graph has a weight.
We have constructed as an output,
a subset of the graph that this is,
that covers every single edge of the graph
and whose total weight is minimum.
The sum of the vertex weights is minimum.
This is one of the most fundamental
problems of common internal optimization.
So, I have given you a definition
of the vertex cover programming.
Now, I will give you another formulation,
more algebraic as an integer program.
[SOUND]